# Linux ln command

By Garry Newell
Updated June 14, 2019


HTML:
https://www.lifewire.com/create-symbolic-links-ln-command-4059723

Symbolic links are utilized just like shortcuts. They can be used to
make really long paths shorter and a way to get easy access to files
on other partitions and drives.

This guide shows everything you need to know about symbolic links but
you can check out the manual page for the ln command for the other
switches.
Getting Started

There are two types of links available:

    Hard links: This is a link to an actual file on the Linux system.
	    Soft links: This is similar to a Windows "shortcut", which
		points to the original file location. This is also known as a
		"symbolic" link.

		Before you begin, it's good to know what hard links are and
		why you would use them. Later in this article, you'll learn
		about soft links or symbolic links as they are more commonly
		known.
		What Is a Hard Link?

		Each file in your file system is identified by a number
		called an inode. Most of the time you won't need to care
		about this number, but the importance of it comes to light
		when you want to create a hard link.

		A hard link lets you assign a different name to a file in a
		different location, but it's still exactly the same file. The
		key that links the files together is the inode number. The
		great thing about hard links is that they don't take up any
		extra physical hard drive space.

		A hard link makes it easier to categorize files. For
		instance, imagine you have a folder full of photos. You could
		create one folder called vacation pictures, another folder
		called kids photos, and a third one called pet photos.

		It's possible that you'll have some photos that fit into all
		three categories because they were taken while you were on
		vacation with your children and dogs.
		Organizing Files With Hard Links

		You could put the main file in the vacation pictures photos
		folder and then create a hard link to that photo in the kids'
		photos category. Then, you can make another hard link in the
		pet photos category — and no extra disk space is used to
		store duplicates of the same photo.

		All you have to do is enter the following command to create a
		hard link:

		ln /path/to/file /path/to/hardlink

		If you had a photo called BrightonBeach in the vacation
		photos folder and you wanted to create a link in the kids'
		photos folder, you would use the following command:

		ln /holidayphotos/BrightonBeach.jpg
		/kidsphotos/BrightonBeach.jpg

		You can tell how many files link to the same inode by using
		the ls command as follows:

		ls -lt

		The output will be something like -rw-r--r-- 1 username
		groupname date filename.

		The first part of the output shows the user's permissions,
		but the important part is the number after the permissions
		and before the username. 
		A screenshot of ls -lt command results

		If the number is 1 it is the only file pointing to a
		particular inode (i.e. it is not linked). If the number is
		greater than one then it is hard-linked by 2 or more files.
		What Is a Symbolic Link?

		A symbolic link is like a shortcut from one file to another.
		The contents of a symbolic link are the address of the actual
		file or folder that is being linked to.

		The benefit of using symbolic links is that you can link to
		files and folders on other partitions and on other devices.

		Another difference between a hard link and a symbolic link is
		that a hard link must be created against a file that already
		exists, whereas a soft link can be created in advance of the
		file it is pointing to existing.
		Creating a Symbolic Link

		To create a symbolic link use the following syntax:

		ln -s /path/to/file /path/to/link

		If you are worried about overwriting a link that already
		exists you can use the -b switch as follows:

		ln -s -b /path/to/file /path/to/link

		This will create a backup of the link if it already exists by
		creating the same filename but with a tilde at the end (~).
		If a file already exists with the same name as the symbolic
		link you will receive an error.

		You can force the link to overwrite the file by using the
		following command:

		ln -s -f /path/to/file /path/to/link

		You probably don't want to use the -f switch without the -b
		switch as you will lose the original file.

		Another alternative is to receive a message asking whether
		you want to overwrite a file if it already exists. You can do
		this with the following command:

		ln -s -i /path/to/file /path/to/link

		Most modern File Explorer applications in Linux let you
		create a symbolic link using the visual GUI. For example,
		using Thunar File Manager, inside any folder, just right
		click and select Create symlink.
		Screenshot of creating a symlink in Thunar File Manager

		This creates what looks like a new folder. It's actually a
		symbolic link pointing to the folder where you created it.
		You can cut and paste this symlink anywhere else you like,
		and when you open it, it will always open the original folder
		where you created it.
		How Do You Tell If a File Is a Symbolic Link?

		Run the following ls command:

		ls -lt

		If a file is a symbolic link you will see something like
		this:

		myshortcut -> myfile

		You can use a symbolic link to navigate to another folder as
		explained above.

		For example, imagine you have a link to
		/home/music/rock/alicecooper/heystoopid called heystoopid.

		You can run the following cd command to navigate to that
		folder using the following command:

		cd heystoopid

EOF
